soon 1 cn. x ξ 21. 99

as he refers 1111111110 qai oeliat=qaateees illi voterit, Adra. Ur. 11 5) but
I arn not able to point to a parallel 1111. For the general form of the
sentence Sch compares Die. 1 132 aeae ille testabor following hoec lactei
de divinatione quoe dicerem.

qui animantem-velint: ‘(their stupidity) in being ready to predicato
roundness of a being who is immortal and blessed into the bargain'. I '
take enimam as a Subst3 Vell had previously stated that the Stoice con-
sidered the world to be alive; here he adopts their view and shows its
absurd consequences Veliae subj. after qei= qrecd ii, Roby § 174ος erepet
subj. as dependent on subjunctival clause.

Plato: rim. 33 Β, cf. N. D. 11 46 foll where Balbus criticizes Vell

ut: sc. ejmmode' 11.

celeritate. As the earth was generally assumed to be at rest in the
centro of the universe it was supposed that the heavens mede a complete
revolution about it every 24 hours. Aristarchus (280111.) propounded the
Copernican or heliocentric hypothesis, and was charged with impiety by
Cleanthes as κινοῦντα τοῦ κόσμου τὴν ἑστίαν. Hicetas the Pythagorean
(about 400 n. c.) and Heraclides of Pontus (350 nc.) are said to have
accounted for the apparent movement of the heavens by attributing rota·
tion to the earth, and this is discussed as a legitimate hypothesis . by
Aristotle. See Lewis Astroaomy oftte Anciaets pp. 1711811151. The
question, already debated by the senciente, whether Plato held the same
doctrine, is discussed by Lewis p. 142, and at greater length by Grote in ,a

“ paper contained in 1111111111θ Worlce.

contorqueatur: used with a Middle fores.

1111111 constans: that ‘a steadfast mind' is essential to rita 11111111
asserted §§ 34 and 52. The objection is taken from Arist. Cael. 11 l ‘nor
can we suppose that the heaven is kept eternally in its place by the
coercive influence of a soul: it is impossible that a-soul thus engaged
should enjoy happiness, for, if we assume the heaven to have 1 different ·
natural movement of its own, such coercive movement must necessarily be
ἄσχολον καὶ πάσης ἀπηλλαγμένην porreiras ἔμφρονος 11 a 10111 which has 110
refreshment of sleep, like the souis of mortale, but is for ever spinning
round like Ixion on his wheel ’. ’ ·

insistere : ‘find a foot-hold’.

quodque-in dec. The natural way of taking this sentence is cer-
tainly to suppose that it continues the argument against a rotatory (iod.
‘The motion would bc destructive of the tranquillity we ascribe to God,
and, if we may judge from our own feelings, it would also be very uncom-
fortable'. But then how are we to explain the enim of the next sentence?

' for the earth is supposed to be immovable; it is the mendas which moves

Sch therefore following Madv. Fica 111 73, understands qee as passing on
to another point in the argument, and makes the clause refer to the
extremes of heat and cold spoken cf below. To this Heidt. p. 46 objects

that the reference of quod must have been made clear by the addition of

r-2

 

